6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello and welcome to 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish
I'm Neil and today we're joined by Hanna from The What in the World podcast
Hey Neil, it's great to be back
So Neil, do you think you're good at preparing for the future or for unexpected events?
Hmm
Reasonably
Good, I suppose depends what kind of event we're talking about all kinds of events
Now I think I'm pretty organized but I only have enough food to last me about a week
And today we're talking all about prepers
A preper is someone who believes that disaster is likely to happen soon
And so they prepare for it
A preper might learn survival skills or they might build a bunker and underground shelter
Yes and recently many famous billionaires from the tech industry have made the news for building luxury bunkers
So what these bunkers need to do is to keep you safe from danger
But they're also like something out of a spy film
They're huge and they've got cool features like gyms or home cinemas
They allow someone to live a comfortable life while staying safe from danger
A very comfortable life
We're going to be talking about these luxury bunkers the people building them and what they're so afraid of
But first Neil, I've got a question for you
Mark Zuckerberg the CEO of Meta which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp
Is building a property in Hawaii
Which is reported to include a huge underground bunker
So Neil how much is he reportedly spending on the project?
Is it a
10 million dollars
B
50 million dollars or see
100 million dollars well Hannah
I don't know but
He's a pretty rich guy so I think
100 million
Well, I will reveal the answer at the end of the program
Hannah you've been looking into these luxury bunkers like the one Mark Zuckerberg is reported to be building on what in the world
What have you discovered?
Well, I was joined by BBC report in a Tallya Humanist to talk about preppers and I started off by asking
Whether she had ever considered building a bunker and preparing for disaster. I love this question because I've actually been thinking about it for a while
Fun fact
Yes, can you watch TV in the US when you turn on a kind of US TV channel?
What happens is that there's usually some ads about freeze dried food. I'm not kidding
They pop up quite regularly and it's all about kind of the prep mentality
What are you going to do when the apocalypse happens?
Natalia has thought about building a bunker and getting prepared because she sees adverts for freeze dried food
That would last a long time on TV in the US
When she talks about the adverts she says I'm not kidding which means I'm not joking
Natalia says that these adverts are part of the prepper mentality and mentality is a person's way of thinking about things
So the prepper mentality would mean thinking about things like a prepper
Part of the prepper mentality is to question what you would do if the apocalypse happens and a
Apocalypse refers to a serious event which causes destruction and change
So lots of people do think about preparing for bad things Natalia's thought about it and for tech billionaires like Mark Zuckerberg
They're able to spend a lot of money preparing for disaster
So do you think they know something we don't what are they preparing for?
Let's hear from Natalia again speaking to me on what in the world so the reasons include nuclear tensions AI risk
Climate disaster essentially any world ending event but secondly, it's also a mark of
societal status so no matter what happens no matter what comes our way if you're a tech billionaire
You're going to be able to live through that
comfortably without compromising your lifestyle without compromising the standard that you have
So because these tech billionaires are essentially building the future the fact that they're so afraid of it
Quarroquo is telling within itself
So one tech billionaires are worried about things like climate disaster or AI
Natalia says that luxury bunkers are also a mark of social status or status as we would say in the UK
Someone's status is the amount of respect or importance given to them by other people
With their bunkers tech billionaires would be able to survive without compromising their luxury lifestyle
That means without lowering their standard of living
Okay, so now I need to know the answer to that quiz question you gave me Hannah
Yes, Neil so my question was Mark Zuckerberg the CEO of Meta is building a property in her why
Which is said to include a huge underground bunker?
How much is he reported to be spending on the project?
Well, I think I gave options C which was $100 million
Your right Neil the property is said to include a large underground bunker
Although Zuckerberg says it's just a little shelter
Okay, it's time to recap the language we've learnt during the program starting with prepper
Someone who thinks disaster is likely to happen soon and so prepares for it
Kidding means joking your mentality is the way you think about things and a pop-alipse
Reference to a serious event which causes destruction and change your status or status in society is the amount of respect and
Importance other people give you and if you compromise something like your lifestyle you'll lower the standard of it
That's it for this episode of six minute English, but Hannah where can people find more what in the world?
Well, you can listen to us wherever you get your BBC podcast or you can watch us on the BBC world service
YouTube channel just search for what in the world in the studio or click on the link in the notes for this program
And don't forget to test what you've learned in this program with the quiz on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com. Goodbye for now. Goodbye and if you're a proper good luck